aw.entry.Magnus.1=
aw.entry.Introduction.1=  At the constant demands of my apprentices, I've started writing down my knowledge of blood magic.  I've told them time and again that what we do is far too dangerous to write about, and in the wrong hands... I don't want to think of the consequences. But they have made one good point: if more people are going to learn blood magic, word of mouth is far too limited. But I'm getting sidetracked, back to what this is all about. Following their example, I
aw.entry.Introduction.2=will introduce myself.          My name is Magus Arcana, and I am the founder of blood magic. I have lived a long life, studying more fields of magic then one could count. When I was younger I moved to the outskirts of a village to start my journeys into the arcane. After several decades of study, I realized there was one source of power few had ever touched: Blood.                        Many mages claimed that the
aw.entry.Introduction.3=use of blood in magic was taboo, yet gave no reason as to why. Eventually, my curiosity grew beyond my reluctance and I started experimenting with the art of blood magic.                 
aw.entry.Weak Rituals.1=  My first breakthrough was with a simple device that used the power of whatever was above it as a template, along with a great deal of blood(25 hearts, or 5k LP if you go by the system one of my apprentices made years later) to perform small miracles. I must also note that at the start of each of the rituals lightning strikes the ritual stone setting it alight, as if the cost of activation wasn't deadly enough. After two weeks of
aw.entry.Weak Rituals.2=meditation to strengthen my soul to the point where I could handle the strain of these rituals, I started experimenting with different templates to discover their effects. At that point, I only had the strength to test one template per day before I felt weak. I decided to start training my body and mind again like I did when I was younger, while using a few tricks I had learned over the years to help speed up the process.                 
aw.entry.Weak Rituals.3= With some work I found that water creates a rainstorm with so much lightning that I couldn't sleep that night. A somewhat rare mineral block by the name of Lapis had the very interesting effect of turning day into night. Needless to say, everyone in the village was very confused when the sun suddenly vanished and they couldn't see anything. I was shocked when I found that a coal block summoned a zombie stronger than any other I've
aw.entry.Weak Rituals.4=ever fought in the night. I also lost the coal block to fire from the lightning strike when I was dealing with said zombie. The final effect I found was with bedrock I found at the bottom of a local mine, hardening my skin temporarily. While I looked no different, I could shrug off a blow from an iron sword without a scratch.      
aw.entry.Rituals.1=  I soon decided that those rituals were far too weak and costly, so I started working on a much larger version. By mixing my blood and a little bit of Mana with an item that was naturally attuned to an element(I found that magma cream worked for fire, a Lapis block for water, obsidian for earth, and a ghast tear for air) I created powerful scribing tools that used blood (100 LP's worth per use) as ink. I used stone fused with blood and obsidian
aw.entry.Rituals.2=to create stones strong enough to withstand more powerful rituals. It took me over two years to perfect the ritual stone. Trust me, you don't want to see what happened with some of the earlier tests. Let us just say they made the holes creepers leave look like potholes, and leave it at that. I also designed a "Master" stone to be what really controls the rituals, with the powerful dust called "Redstone" able to deactivate
aw.entry.Rituals.3=rituals and putting in a few safeguards so that if some fool tries to activate a ritual they don't have the strength or the blood to handle, it doesn't kill them outright. While I was able to weaken the pull that rituals carried on the user’s life force to not cause any lasting harm, I could not quite get rid of the feeling of nausea and unease an unattended Ritual would cause  . I eventually got tired of trying to stop it and marked
aw.entry.Rituals.4=it down as an occupational hazard.                      
